George H: Yeah.
George H: okay, so this is this is our last of what? We're calling the core curriculum from Ming's team. And I've really enjoyed reviewing this deck. This deck is from Ryan Cooter, who is the or like, has been the long time managing director of techstars anywhere, which is our remote accelerator. But now he's taking over Techstar, San Diego. So he's down in San Diego. He's Neil's mentor here at techstars. He's been here for
George H: probably double the amount of time this year. Yeah, so almost double Neil's tenure. And he's just awesome. So this is how he teaches his cohort to do elevator pitches, and I adapted it to kind of fit. What you guys already know, I'm excited about it.
George H: So 1st explaining the different types of pitches because a lot of people think like a pitch is just one thing. So how many different pitches you'll learn throughout the program. And this isn't even a comprehensive list of just the pitches you'll need in general, because you also need investor pitches, which will be much longer. But this is what we covered during program elevator pitches, which we'll do now, and you'll have to do
George H: other times throughout program demo day pitch, which for us is a 1 min pitch different than your elevator pitch. It will cover a lot more and then sales pitches, which you'll also do during program, which is completely different, right? Because it has a different job that you're trying to do.
George H: So just remember that these are completely different. I want you guys to kind of separate elevator pitches should be no more than 30 seconds closer to like 20 seconds. And then that's really when you start to lose people, 2 to 3 sentences. That's what you should think of just like a bite size amount to get people to ask more questions.
George H: The Demo day pitch is also what I would call a movie trailer. But it's much closer to a movie trailer where it's not like a a short or like a tiktok right like this is the 1st one is very much like you see a couple of glimpses of the movie, and maybe you'll go watch the trailer. The second one is actually the trailer, and then sales. Pitches are completely different. But I would say, you can adapt your elevator pitch to use for sales.
George H: So today we're gonna only talk about the 1st one. So learning objectives for you today
George H: is to learn your elevator pitch and make sure the pitch can be understood by other people. So a lot of you already have a pitch, but I want you to really focus on getting the audience to have the actions afterward that you want them to have. So you want them to ask the right questions, you want them to be interested. You want to get their attention. There's a difference between having a pitch and having an effective pitch.
George H: So like I said this says one to 2, I would say 2 to 2 to 3 sentences that describe your business in 20 to 30 seconds without you speeding through like you speak at a normal pace, very clear and eloquent, and it should be 2 to 3 sentences, and we'll talk about what that should contain.
George H: So the goal.
George H: what you're you want to make sure that the person that's listening can understand after you're done, what your company does the problem? You're tackling the solution to solve that problem, the value you bring to your audience or to your customers, which is the biggest one. So the 4th one is the most important, and then why they should care about your solution. And I would even add, it's in another slide here any next step
George H: so like if you're talking to a room, come, talk to me. If you're talking to someone, you can ask them to add you on Linkedin, or whatever you want them to do, you can like end with your next step
George H: at the end of your elevator pitch, like I just said, want people to do these things. You might want them to do things outside of this list, but you need to have a purpose every time you give the elevator pitch. So when you shake someone's hand and you start telling them about your company, think in the back of your mind like what? What is my purpose. What do I want from this person? Do I want to gain their email? Do I want to connect with them? Do I want them to book a meeting with me. Do I want the room to come? Talk to me at this networking event? What like? What is it?
George H: So there are 2 steps to a great elevator pitch. The 1st one is, build a great business, so if you build a great business, the second part comes very easy.
George H: So this
George H: I put a star here for tech stars. This is, we're already helping with this one.
George H: So this one is completely covered for the next 13 weeks. You guys are already doing that.
George H: Once you have that just like, we were talking about investment yesterday, you build the great business. The investment will follow. You build a great business. The pitch will follow. It's not. We're not trying to craft smoke and mirrors to cover something that's not exceptional. We should just be excited and happy to talk about the thing we're building, because it's great. So that's really the hack, and there's no way around it. You just have to build a great business to have a great pitch. There's really no way to have a great pitch that's authentic. People can see right through that
George H: and then tell people about it. So like we said, directly comes from having a great business.
George H: Okay?
George H: So example, if right now, I'm here, or Ryan, who made the deck, is here helping you with your pitches. You can say we have a pitch business, so if our whole business is helping startups make great pitches, pretend we don't market tech stars. This would be our elevator pitch
George H: for founders who need to find investors, customers, or employees. I help craft compelling pitches so they can quickly get people excited about their business.
George H: That would just be the 1st sentence
George H: founders tend to underinvest in practicing their pitch. This is huge. You think that like, oh, I know my business so I can just fire off a pitch about it like it's easy to talk about.
George H: but it's not because you guys have so much
George H: about your business that's in your brain and putting it all down to 2 to 3 sentences is such an underrated task. It is so difficult.
George H: people tend to ramble. People tend to not get to the point or miss things that they would have wanted to say.
George H: You want to make sure that you spend time mastering your pitch, and I would say, not just the CEO. You should all be able to talk about your business for at least 20 to 30 seconds
George H: only. The CEO needs to be able to do the full minute for Demo today. But for the elevator pitch you're all gonna be, at events, that we bring into. And you're all gonna be shaking hands with people. You should all be able to speak for 20 seconds with the gist of your business. So practice with your teams. Make sure everybody, even the people not in this room, can give the pitch.
George H: It's a really positive signal to investors and mentors alike. If you can demonstrate a unified front across your team of alignment about talking about.
George H: Yep.
George H: So the most common questions that you you would want to answer about your business, that someone wants to know who's the customer, what's the problem you're solving? What's the product or solution. Why should I care? So that's really important. You have to remember that this person is listening.
George H: You're asking them for 20 to 30 seconds of their attention, which, if if you think about it for yourself.
George H: is really hard, we only really tune in for like 5 to 10 and decide if it's interesting, and then you decide if you're going to listen to the second half, so think about your audience. Why should they care? And we'll talk about how you can.
George H: make your pitch accommodate that.
George H: What's your traction? What's your best? Why are you the best team? So these are like optional questions that you could answer in your pitch.
George H: This is really important. So Neil and I usually don't talk about this for a couple of weeks. But
George H: you guys should be taking every question that you get about your business and writing it down in a frequently asked questions. Doc. An FAQ, doc.
George H: I'll let Neil talk about this in a second. But this is one of the super pro moves. That's like a hack that makes you a much better founder than everyone else. So if you guys have a doc where every single time you meet with a mentor meet with an investor, even a customer, you meet with anyone who you're learning, or you're teaching about your business, and they immediately follow up with a question. Write it down.
George H: shred them all. i i i wasn't. I forgot that this was in there. But
George H: one common thread I found from a lot of the entrepreneurs I ended up becoming friends with is that many of them had what I call a question bank.
George H: or literally, as they were building their business. Everybody they interacted with. They had a document where they had written down every single question, and then you add, like a some sort of indicator of the frequency of the questions being asked. So then, all of a sudden, you have a heat map
George H: that shows where people are questioning your business the most consistently, and that's the area that you usually need to work on to be clear about, or, you know, more effectively. Explain,
George H: most founders end up, not taking this seriously until the final few weeks before Demo Day.
George H: I think all of you should start a question bank right?
George H: And if you create this document and you just are meticulous about paying attention to what questions you get asked. You won't regret it, because by the end of the program your Demo day pitch will basically be done because all you need to do is find the best questions to answer on stage.
George H: Okay?
George H: And this slide is specifically talking about after you give an elevator pitch, what do people follow up with as their next questions.
George H: The next step is to review the questions and then begin to develop answers to those repeatedly asked questions. Make sure that all of your teammates can answer these questions and
George H: and then, yeah, make this FAQ, Doc. And for us, we're going to use it at Demo Day, like Neil said, but it's also really helpful to put in your data room. It's an extremely impressive thing to have in there that most people don't. So that's a cool thing, too. I've seen founders who get investor questions. They respond, hey? Like, thanks for your questions. We actually have answers to those in this, Doc. And they link the doc with extremely thoughtful answers. One, it saves you time because you already had it, to being able to respond to these like
George H: 3 or 4 really in depth questions that they sent you. You can respond an hour later because you've already thought through it. Think about how impressive that looks.
George H: So lots of uses for the FAQ. Page. We always say it, and I feel like 2 to 3 founders do it. But I highly recommend it's a really low lift with a high reward.
George H: Okay?
George H: So first, st we're gonna go through the framework of the pitch. So first, st
George H: let's talk about what makes a great story, because how many of you tuned into Mike Evans storytelling this morning?
George H: Okay, okay, so like half that's great.
George H: it's very much the same. It's synonymous storytelling and pitching, or you're just being a storyteller. So when you're thinking about crafting this elevator pitch, you want to make it in the same way that we would think about a story.
George H: So to illustrate that, does anyone want to share a favorite movie?
George H: It's the timing. Okay.
George H: okay, Dominique, who is the main character in Pilot.
George H: Who's the main character in twilight?
George H: Okay? And then what's the conflict
George H: conflict?
George H: Oh, okay. Well, I guess that which means the overall synopsis. The 1st one, I guess, Edward, I would say. The main character, Bella. She falls in love with a vampire, and it's like, will they want it? How they're gonna be together. I got you. Okay. So exactly so. And then the victory, I would say.
George H: if we do, the whole series is they get married at the end, and she also won't spoil it. She also becomes a vampire, so that, you see, we have started to end.
George H: I'm glad you picked one item. We have start to end
George H: character plot. There's development, there's victory. We're bringing a full story, arc arc of the main character which you guys can look up
George H: the whole story arc of like a quest story which is very helpful for pitching. We're not going to go into that here, but basically exactly what you said, there's characters, there's conflict, there's plot, there's victory. This is very much what makes an interesting pitch. So think about your favorite movie.
George H: Think about a 20 to 30. Second version of that. Think about how interesting that is, and that's how you should talk about your business. It shouldn't be something that makes people's eyes glaze over. It should be fun. Building startups is very interesting. And you guys get a lot more when you can engage people and get them as excited as you are.
George H: especially in the bay. I think this is particularly important for you guys, because most people out here startups are not novel. They're not just inherently interested because you're building a startup like they might be in Chicago, where we
George H: most people might hear like 10 pitches a day, and you're just another company. So, thinking about it from their perspective, you want to make sure that you're engaging people. So let's talk about it. Characters would be your customers conflict? Are their problems, the plot what you do for them so like, what's actually happening in this movie? And then the victory, or like the conclusion would be the value they get and how we're helping them solve that problem.
George H: This is a really cool way to think about it. I like that, Ryan said it like this
George H: risk here, I think with that formula is how many people it's like 95% block
George H: way you talk, you just jump straight to what you do, how it works, and then you get 2 of the rest. Hope that they figure out we're leaving out. The pot is the biggest mistake people make. And we'll get to that with like.
George H: well.
George H: I I agree with Neil, it should be like 10%, 10%, 70%, 10% actually value should also be a little bit big.
George H: Okay? So
George H: the formula here is to start. Ryan says, start with, introduce yourself. I put a caveat on that that I'll get to in a second, and you're gonna pitch.
George H: and you're gonna stick the landing, and we're going to talk about each of these in dice.
George H: And then you're gonna talk about what's next. So that's like our basic formula here.
George H: And we're going to go into each one.
George H: So 1st is introduce yourself, and I put a little caveat here
George H: because Troy talks about in pitches, and he will be here, and he and I will lead a session for you guys
George H: he does not like when people start by introducing themselves because he's been around the block for decades. And he said, If I hear another founder. Say, Hi! I'm Liliana, and I'm the founder of Blank, he said he. His eyes are gonna like blaze over and fall out. So
George H: don't start like this, I think it's important to introduce yourself. I would say it's not Step one. You want to have an interesting opening. That's not in this presentation. But Troy and I will go into how to have an interesting opening. That's really important, because if you don't grab the people's attention if you start by Hi, I'm the CEO blah blah people are just already checked out, and they're going to wait till the next classmate that gets on stage.
George H: What your business is because of what you're saying about it, or something that you're activating their curiosity.
George H: I agree. But it is important to introduce yourself at some point. So after your hook even after you introduce the problem wherever it fits naturally in your pitch. If you get through the whole thing and you don't, Troy will say, who are you? I don't know who you are. Yeah, Morgan. Specific examples are you talking about like opening like a little joke, or like, Hey, my favorite, we'll go into hooks
George H: not irrelevant things. But things that make people think are one like you. Someone came up and said like
George H: they were doing an ecological project that helps construction equipment that is not
George H: used. He like thrifted and used again. So it's not like wasteful, and he gets up and he said, like every single one of us, what what did he say? He said. Every single one of us is like using energy right now. The lights here. The A/C, that's blasting like, yeah, something like that that made people like aware of where they were sitting in their presence. That was really interesting. And so you start thinking. And then he goes into how like, yeah, we need to start saving this stuff.
George H: We just act like it's nothing that's vaguely related to him like roofing construction stuff, but it is and then there are other people that go up and say a shocking statistic or something really personal, like, you know, last year I was in the hospital, and I thought I was going to die like it could be really personal. It could be something related to your business, and it doesn't have to have shock value. Also, it could just be interesting.
George H: and we'll get into that. But
George H: the hook for now for the elevator pitch is less important because it's only 20 to 30 seconds
George H: in the demo date pitch is extremely important because you're asking people to listen for a minute
George H: for this elevator pitch. It's okay to just. I'll show you how you can start. You can just start by interestingly explaining the problem you're solving
George H: because you don't, that's all. You really have time.
George H: So then you're going to pitch
George H: in the pitch.
George H: Yes, okay, in the pitch, like Neil just said, you're going to want to focus on what everybody gets from your product. If you remember, we talked about why you're they're buying versus what you're selling. You don't really want to talk about what you're selling. You want to talk about what the customer is buying and the value they get from that. Remember the why, they're buying the outcome. How you're helping them get there.
George H: Ryan has this really cool illustration. This is also something Neil has in his lectures when he talks about prototyping and implications from jobs to be done. So we'll hear this again from Neil. But I like this because we have a lot of gamers here. So who is the person on the left?
George H: Yes, and Mario, what is Mario's occupation?
George H: Yeah, he's a plumber, and his quest, or the thing he's trying to get done is he's trying to save the Princess. He's a plumber, and he has work to do and he! He needs help. So we are
George H: the game makers. We provide him with a product. What is the next thing?
George H: Yeah. Like a flower power up thing. If you're not familiar? And then what is what happens when he gets the flower?
George H: You can spit fire, and
George H: he becomes like giant right? So a couple of things. So this says, awesome person who can do rad stuff. So he gets to do rad stuff, basically. And it helps him accomplish his goal of saving the Princess. So
George H: if we were making flowers for farmers who are trying to save princesses. We would not talk about the flower. We would talk about the awesome stuff you get to do with the flower?
George H: I don't know if you want to add things now.
George H: Yeah. So when you get up there, if you were pitching this business. You should barely talk about the flower. You don't talk about the features of the flower, and how pretty it is, and the petals, and all this different stuff and how you're gonna have them accessible for wherever he's running, you're talking about how he will become tall and can spitfire, and this will help him achieve his goal much more easily and quickly. That's what matters.
George H: This is what people miss in their business. So many people get up and say, Hi, we're solving this problem. And here's our solution. We have this Saas platform. And it does this. And this.
George H: okay, well, how is it helping make the lives of your customers better. I didn't get that from this at all. I'm not really interested
George H: if you show how you're demonstrating, or if you demonstrate how you're giving true value. That's when people are going to be interested in your business.
George H: So that's the pitch part that should be in the middle. So remember the movie story.
George H: You have your characters, you have their problem, but the plot is the most important part, and the victory.
George H: So Ryan Cruder calls this blank blank super fire, Mario, so that you can remember this should be kind of an opening. I wouldn't. I wouldn't copy it word for word, or else everything is going to seem robotic. But for an idea of a template.
George H: 4.
George H: Your customer segment, who have this problem or situation, we make some product so they can do Rad stuff. And that is the most important part. Just so they can. And I added, this little note, does this look familiar?
George H: It's very interesting how the job statement goes right into being able to explain about your business. And it's just like Fight Club. You don't have to explain that it's the job or anything. It's just you have that info, and it goes right in here.
George H: Same with your business blueprint we worked on last week.
George H: I'll give a sec, because people are writing.
George H: Okay. So for the Mario, for video game plumber characters who are attacked by, how do you say this is this, we make this crazy fire flower, which we we do say that we make it. But we're not focusing on that.
George H: The main thing is so they can be invincible and shoot fire and win the game. So the rad stuff that they can do is be invincible and shoot fire. That's the plot. And then, when the game is the victory. So you do want to bring it to a conclusion of how you, so they can do this really good thing and accomplish their goal, and you should say what their goal is and how they're going to get there.
George H: So that was pitch. The last or the 3rd part is, stick the landing. And I really like this because I love women's gymnastics as a former cheerleader. And the main thing here, I think he put a video.
George H: Okay, the main thing here is you can have an awesome ball, and you can have an awesome tumbling routine if you don't stick the line and you get a huge deduction, and the same happens in pitches.
George H: So if you're up here and it's really great, and everything's happening well, and then you just kind of taper off, or you don't know how to conclude it. This happens probably with the majority of people. So you have a strong opening. You know what you're gonna say. And then you kind of get lost somewhere along the way, and you're not really sure how to wrap it up or tie a bow. And then it's like people are kind of left like, Oh, that that was okay. I don't really know if I want to talk to that person that they didn't seem super on it. You know
George H: it ruins the whole thing, so don't neglect the ending. Make sure you know how you're gonna conclude it. It's really important, just like in gymnastics, remember, just like, stick the ending. Get all the points, and then do your little flourish
George H: just like Simone biles. Oh.
George H: oh, okay, we're fine. I'll I'll do everything
George H: alright.
George H: So the last part, the what's next? Oh, this is part of sticking the landing, so memorable components will help you stick the landing so any sort of thing that you want to fill in the rest of the time with it could be your personal story, a fact, a statistic should really only be like one thing because you only have 20 to 30 seconds. So you've already done the pitch. You've explained how you're going to help Mario save the Princess, and you should add something interesting, because if you just say that 1st part, it's gonna kind of go in one ear at the other.
George H: I think that term stick. The landing is really good, because think about like you want it to be sticky. You want something to stay with them. So like a fact. A statistic, a story I like. Why, you're doing this. Why, your team is the best like, just pick something that is the most interesting for you guys.
George H: We're a team of, you know, 3 time founders. Or I'm doing this because my mother faced this problem for years, and I wasn't able to save her like whatever it is. I think it can be different for each of you, but adding something in there. Yeah. And it's like a bigger vision, a good way to stick to landing like. So we've ended our pitch before saying,
George H: you know that our vision is for more reliable AI, unbiased AI. Things like that, like a bigger vision than just the product. But is that?
George H: No, I think for yours, because it's like doing social good if you can make it like, really inspirational. And like, I think that would be really cool. Okay, like, let me paint this vision of a better future that you can help us with, like something like that, because this is really meaningful, like being really passionate about it could work, I would say, like just explaining how the market is much bigger is probably not in the scope of this 20 to 30. Second thing.
George H: And I would also make sure that you don't just use things that people would
George H: displays over with buzzword buzzwords. Yeah, okay.
George H: okay. So
George H: there are some good points for sticking the landing
George H: be adaptable.
George H: You want it to be relatable.
George H: You want it to create a motion kind of like. I was just telling Annie, and you want it to grab their attention.
George H: Don't think too much about this part, because, like it could, you could take or leave it as long as you have a conclusion like it doesn't have to be like the most amazing thing ever.
George H: I think the adaptability piece is a really big deal, because every pitch is different. You might have spoken too long at the beginning. Basically. Don't be like dead set on exactly what you want to say. You might have to alter it in go time, especially because it's so quick.
George H: Here's some other tips, so make it impressive by highlighting any key progress that could also be a way to stick the landing. I've seen really great pitches finish with like, and we just signed our 1st customer yesterday, and everybody claps right. So like it's not something static. It should change along with you, and you're growing business. It should be kind of casual, something that you might throw in and then, if you don't have something impressive, make it important.
George H: So evoke invoke emotion, invoke importance or relevance, make people interested.
George H: So here are some options.
George H: So we have introduce yourself, which should happen probably later.
George H: For Customer X, who has X problem. We provide X solutions so they can blank 5 is the most important part, and then end with
George H: quick traction. You know we've signed 3 customers so far, and we plan to expand to whole foods next month.
George H: And you know we're 3 time founding team of food entrepreneurs. So you know, we're the ones to make this happen. I was making a Cpg. Company something like that. You see how you can hit all those things in like one sentence. It's it's really not supposed to double the whole length of your pitch
George H: other memorable components like I said, your story a surprising fact, your statistic and interesting trend. I think we're kind of harping on this. This is less important than the meat of your pitch. This is just how you're wrapping it up to. Just think about it, and don't stress too much about this last part.
George H: Okay, so I want to call up probably like 5 or 6 of you to try. But 1st let's do some examples. So I'll pitch these.
George H: So at walk wise, we focus on people who use mobility aids, because, despite being only 11% of the senior population, they account for 40% of faults.
George H: And all of us have someone in our lives that are a part of this 7 billion dollar domestic market.
George H: And if you're a senior care organization. Today, you're being asked to take on more and more of the financial risk for these people's health care costs.
George H: And you're doing that while short staff and people want to receive their healthcare at home.
George H: So that's why we invented walkwise and wheelwise. Hi!
George H: I'm Liliana, and I'm the CEO of walkwise. We're, you know, we're building this. So this is like he or he or she would just wrap it up. After this, like the whole pitch happened. And then they decided to end with an introduction
George H: that's totally valid. Do you see how they put their whole customer journey, and what they're trying to accomplish and what they're facing. I think this is really good because it focuses a lot on the problem
George H: next one.
George H: Max, rewards.
George H: If you're like 84% of Americans. You have a credit card. But unless you're already using our app, you're probably not getting the full value out of them.
George H: maximizing the value of your credit cards is cumbersome and tedious. You have to continuously activate all of your offers and benefits, figure out the best card to use for every purchase and stay on top of all of your cards. That's just too much of a hassle.
George H: So most custom most consumers lose out on thousands of dollars worth of value. Our solution is automation.
George H: And you know I'm building Max rewards for blah blah blah.
George H: So this already was probably like 15 seconds. So they have about one quarter left to go ahead and finish up. But this is the main meat of it.
George H: I would even say, like, you can introduce yourself before the solution. There's really no rhyme or reason to it. But these are great examples. I think people would be extremely interested to talk to the founders of either of these.
George H: So okay, so this, these are great. These 2 examples are distinct. Right? So the 1st line of each things. The the 1st one is about someone you care about trying to get your attention based on that, and also signaling like the size of the market, and then go to the next slide.
George H: That means about you.
George H: Right? So that's that's basically acknowledging a significant large market, but at the same time making the 1st one. These are both really really strong, like 1st sentences to start.
George H: So think about a way to signal the market size, while the same time they can be personal to whoever you're introducing yourself
George H: cool. So I'm gonna give you guys
George H: 3 min
George H: to work on a draft of a pitch following the framework we just practiced. And then I'm gonna just call on some of you to come up. We'll have time for like 5 or 6 to take 3 min right now, and you're gonna work on this more after this is just for a rough draft to work on together.
George H: I'll tell you when time's up.